README.md, before:

# Embark

A flying start for Laravel projects.

There were some things that I did/used with new Laravel projects, so putting those things in a package speeds up that process. Maybe you'll find it useful as well. This package is in the public domain (using the [Unlicense](http://unlicense.org/)), so go ahead and use it for anything.

## Installation

The intended Laravel version is 5.6, I haven't tested it in previous versions.

Include this project with [Composer](https://getcomposer.org/):  
```composer require nerbiz/embark 0.*```

The service provider will be autodiscovered, but for completeness, the service provider file is `Nerbiz\Embark\EmbarkServiceProvider`. There is no (need for a) Facade, but who knows what the future brings.

Publish the config file:  
```php artisan vendor:publish --tag=embark-config```

Publish some basic views:
```php artisan vendor:publish --tag=embark-views```

## Commands

These are the Artisan commands included in this package:

* `embark:empty-class`: Creates an empty class with only a constructor. The namespace for it can be configured in `config/embark.php`.
* `embark:migration`: Works in the same way as (extends) `make:migration`, but uses custom stubs, which use the custom Blueprint of this package.
* `embark:model`: Works in the same way as (extends) `make:model`, but uses custom namespace and embark:migration instead of make:migration. The namespace for it can be configured in `config/embark.php`.
* `embark:models-namespace`: Create the App\Models namespace and move User to it, and update files that use the User model. Namespace name can be defined in `config/embark.php`.
* `embark:restructure`: Adjusts the directory structure, creates a 'laravel' directory next to the public directory.
* `embark:webpack`: Intended to use with `embark:restructure`, this overwrites the webpack.mix.js file, using the new public directory path.

Explanation for `embark:restructure`:  
I guess this is mostly useful for shared hosting, or other environments with limited control.

Usually, the public directory is called 'public_html', not 'public' as in Laravel. There are usually also a number of files and directories next to the public directory, like things for stats, FTP, SSH, mailboxes etc. I don't prefer to mix those with Laravel files, so my idea was to move all those files to a separate 'laravel' directory. The end result is a 'laravel' and 'public_html' directory, next to each other.

Paths have also been taken care of in this command, so you can just start building.

## Usage

### Custom Blueprint

In a migration file, replace these use statements:
```php
use Illuminate\Support\Facades\Schema;
use Illuminate\Database\Schema\Blueprint;
```
With these:
```php
use Nerbiz\Embark\Facades\Schema;
use Nerbiz\Embark\Schema\Blueprint;
```

Then you can use `$table` as usual, but the `foreignKey()` method has been added.
`foreignKey()` works the same as `foreign()`, but it adds `->references(...)->on(...)->onUpdate(...)->onDelete(...)` implicitly. For example: category_id implicitly references id on categories. The default onUpdate and onDelete values are set in `config/embark.php`.

Since this method returns a Fluent instance, you can use it as you would otherwise. Therefore you could for instance overwrite an implicit foreign table name: `$table->foreignKey('category_id')->on('product_categories');`

My intention is to expand the custom Blueprint with more useful methods.

## Contributing

Please do a pull request, if you have some improvements in mind.

## License

This project uses the [Unlicense](http://unlicense.org/).

Commit message:

Stubs path is now central and configurable

README.md, after:

# Embark

A flying start for Laravel projects.

There were some things that I did/used with new Laravel projects, so putting those things in a package speeds up that process. Maybe you'll find it useful as well. This package is in the public domain (using the [Unlicense](http://unlicense.org/)), so go ahead and use it for anything.

## Installation

The intended Laravel version is 5.6, I haven't tested it in previous versions.

Include this project with [Composer](https://getcomposer.org/):  
```composer require nerbiz/embark 0.*```

The service provider will be autodiscovered, but for completeness, the service provider file is `Nerbiz\Embark\EmbarkServiceProvider`. There is no (need for a) Facade, but who knows what the future brings.

Publish the config file:  
```php artisan vendor:publish --tag=embark-config```

Publish some basic views:
```php artisan vendor:publish --tag=embark-views```

Publish stubs, in case you'd like to customize them:
```php artisan vendor:publish --tag=embark-stubs```
For convenience, the 'stubs_path' value in `config/embark.php` already points to where the stubs are published.

## Commands

These are the Artisan commands included in this package:

* `embark:empty-class`: Creates an empty class with only a constructor. The namespace for it can be configured in `config/embark.php`.
* `embark:migration`: Works in the same way as (extends) `make:migration`, but uses custom stubs, which use the custom Blueprint of this package.
* `embark:model`: Works in the same way as (extends) `make:model`, but uses custom namespace and embark:migration instead of make:migration. The namespace for it can be configured in `config/embark.php`.
* `embark:models-namespace`: Create the App\Models namespace and move User to it, and update files that use the User model. Namespace name can be defined in `config/embark.php`.
* `embark:restructure`: Adjusts the directory structure, creates a 'laravel' directory next to the public directory.
* `embark:webpack`: Intended to use with `embark:restructure`, this overwrites the webpack.mix.js file, using the new public directory path.

Explanation for `embark:restructure`:  
I guess this is mostly useful for shared hosting, or other environments with limited control.

Usually, the public directory is called 'public_html', not 'public' as in Laravel. There are usually also a number of files and directories next to the public directory, like things for stats, FTP, SSH, mailboxes etc. I don't prefer to mix those with Laravel files, so my idea was to move all those files to a separate 'laravel' directory. The end result is a 'laravel' and 'public_html' directory, next to each other.

Paths have also been taken care of in this command, so you can just start building.

## Usage

### Custom Blueprint

In a migration file, replace these use statements:

```php
use Illuminate\Support\Facades\Schema;
use Illuminate\Database\Schema\Blueprint;
```

With these:

```php
use Nerbiz\Embark\Facades\Schema;
use Nerbiz\Embark\Schema\Blueprint;
```

Then you can use `$table` as usual, but the `foreignKey()` method has been added.
`foreignKey()` works the same as `foreign()`, but it adds `->references(...)->on(...)->onUpdate(...)->onDelete(...)` implicitly. For example: category_id implicitly references id on categories. The default onUpdate and onDelete values are set in `config/embark.php`.

Since this method returns a Fluent instance, you can use it as you would otherwise. Therefore you could for instance overwrite an implicit foreign table name: `$table->foreignKey('category_id')->on('product_categories');`

My intention is to expand the custom Blueprint with more useful methods.

## Contributing

Please do a pull request, if you have some improvements in mind.

## License

This project uses the [Unlicense](http://unlicense.org/).
